# Again reset

So this example

```
def directProduct[A](a: Pat[Pat[A]], b: Pat[A]): Pat[Pat[A]] =
  a.flatMap { v: Pat[A] =>
    val br = b.recur()
    br.bubble.map { w: Pat[A] =>
      val vr = v.recur()
      vr ++ w
    }
  }
```

is flawed. Or better, `.recur()` is flawed. Because it can only do as much as call
`peer.reset()` it will never reset the peer correctly, as the semantic idea is to
repeat the entire pattern. Of course `Recur` could be implemented differently by
re-_expanding_ the peer pattern. A subsequent problem is that this way we build up
an increasing set of streams stored in the runtime and associated with the pattern.
It draws into question the purpose of `Pat#reset` and whether streams should be
allowed to be garbage-collected.

But there is a second flaw which is that the method `directProduct` should have no say
in the behaviour of its input arguments. There is some wrong inversion of control going
on here. It should be the callers decision to configure `b` in a way that either resets
or partially resets the sequence during the `flatMap` iterations. Perhaps the caller
does _not_ want to reset the sequence. (does that make sense?)

Do we need `reset`? It has a performance advance -- we can now call it repeatedly which
is as cheap as calling it once, plus we don't need to instantiate new things in the
case of constants. (It will become more expensive if it must now include `reset` calls
on its inputs). And we will most likely want to preserve a way to create "barriers",
such as marking an outer scope random walk as non-resetting.

## Removing `recur`

It's clear that the initial example should be written

```
def directProduct[A](a: Pat[Pat[A]], b: Pat[A]): Pat[Pat[A]] =
  a.flatMap { v =>
    b.bubble.map { w =>
      v ++ w
    }
  }
```

We still need to capture the case where instead of `Cat(v, w)` we just have `v` in the
inner "closure", i.e. the case where the pattern is not "captured' by `PatMap`.
It implies that the reset and scope logic must be moved to the expansion of the pattern.

Certainly the 'keep-pat' branch and decision to no longer have `T#Out` make the reasoning
for complicated here.
