# Event arguments

Looking at `ListPatterns.sc`, there is a hack in place to look for `inval.eventAt('reverse') == true` for some
patterns that support reverse iteration order. A more principled way would be to indicate reversibility by
a sub-type of `Pattern` that supports `reverseIterator` or such.

# Constants

aka the strange case of `Object:next` versus `Stream.next`. So patterns either use `asStream` through calls to
`next` or through a call to `embedInStream`. The behaviour of constants has an anomaly here: While a `Pattern` will 
respond to `asStream` by return a `Stream`, this is not the case for primitive values which instead return themselves,
so `1.asStream == 1`, i.e. an instance of `Integer`. Now `next`/`value` on a primitive will repeat that object forever,
whereas `embedInStream` only embeds it once, as opposed to `Stream` which consistently iterates through `next`/`value`
when using `embedInStream`.

In short, we have a context dependency through which primitives are either infinite streams or singleton streams.
Example of infinite: `offset` parameter in `Pseq`. Example of singleton: as element in the list of `Pseq`.

- `Pgeom`: `var growStr = grow.asStream`, followed by iterative calls `growVal = growStr.next(inval)`
- `Pseq` : `inval = item.embedInStream(inval)`

# Reusing patterns

`Pkey` seems like an inherently bad construction. Apart from possibly mistyping the key, and no way to
obtain the static pattern type in Scala, the order to relevant:

Works:

    p = Pbind(*[
        bar: Pkey(\foo),
        foo: Pseq([2,3,5,8,11],4),
    ])
    
    q = p.asStream;
    q.next(())

Does not:

    p = Pbind(*[
        foo: Pseq([2,3,5,8,11],4),
        bar: Pkey(\foo),
    ])
    
    q = p.asStream;
    q.next(())

How will caching the iterator of a `Pattern` help here? Imagine
 
    val foo = Pseq(Seq(2,3,5,8,11),4)
    p = Pbind("bar" -> foo, "foo" -> foo)
    
This would work "correctly" if the iterators are not cached, as we would get two independent
iterators over the same sequence; this changes with 'individual' patterns, say `Pwhite`. For
that the idea was to cache the iterator; but there is no `current` method on iterator, so
the stream will be consumed twice as fast with no duplicate elements in 'foo' and 'bar'.

Clearly we want a way to tie stream values to logical points in time. Compare this to UGens: Here
we have a topological sorting, and UGen output can be passed to multiple successive stages. Same in
FScape.

When adding the transactional layer, we could have a `TxnLocal` that refers to the valid iteration
state? But multiple `next()` calls could happen within the same transaction. So perhaps a logical
tick in the context? So each "iterator" tracks that tick and returns a previously calculated value
if the tick is identical. But that will have problems if we conceive an iterator which must poll
some of its input more than once per step.

# A note on FScape (09-Nov-2017)

Interestingly, FScape is already much closer to Patterns than one would think. It could be infected
by the latter, e.g. we always wanted to introduce the possibility to 'reset' a UGen. That's basically
when we call `embed` here. Thereby, DSP streams become real _programs_.

So the original intuition of copying the FScape API was not bad. We can still imagine that Akka Stream
runs the stuff? (if we find a way to execute synchronously)

# Pspawner

It might be possibly to include this as an eager function `Pspawner.apply: Pat` that produces a set
of connected patterns which can then still be persisted and played.

Well, there is also `Pspawn`, so perhaps we can rewrite Ron's program first using `Pspawn`.