# foldLeft

the problem arises from the recursive graph:


          /-------\
         /         \
        It         |
       ^   ^   ^   |
       |   |   |   |
       InnerGraph  |
       ^           |
       |           |
       curr <------/
       ^
       |
    FoldLeft

An earlier version passed in the `curr` result from the main stream to the it-streams,
which causes a problem when `curr` is not a value but a stream itself (as happens when
processing a `Pat[Pat[T]]`).

If we moved the inner-stream to the it-stream, expanding it here for each it-stream,
we would obviously trigger an infinite expansion loop.

We might be inclined to thus 'delay' that expansion somehow, but the general case is
that the inner graph may refer to `It` multiple times.

A solution (?) could be to have a master stream that collects _and caches_ the values
of `curr`, and the it-streams would then keep a counter and poll that master stream.
I think the number of it-streams should be known after expanding all inputs to the
fold-left stream; therefore we could also forget cached values once all it-streams
have polled them, thereby avoiding unnecessary memory build-up.

## rethought 14-Feb-18

So now we not longer expand nested patterns eagerly. On a new analysis, pro-actively
caching the recursion contents is _not_ a good idea, because it fails when the streams
are infinite, and for example this happens when `z` is a constant (unless we introduce
again the distinction between `iterator` and `embed`). It's obvious that for `FoldLeft.next`
to work, we _have_ to iterate across the entire input pattern, so we can safely assume
that this is an acceptable operation. Then we can "construct" (somehow) an unfolded
`Pat` that describes all iterations as one pattern, which must then be properly expanded.
E.g.

    Pat(Pat(1), Pat(2), Pat(3)).foldLeft(0)(_ + _)

creates the persisted pattern

    FoldLeft(outer = Pat(Pat(1), ...), z = Constant(0), inner = Graph(BinaryOp(Plus, ItOut, ItIn)))
    
(while we still have to decide whether to acquire two `It` instance or one for a tuple)

Then we can rewrite `inner` as

    val rec1 = BinOp(   z, outer1)
    val rec2 = BinOp(rec1, outer2)
    val rec3 = BinOp(rec2, outer3)

or

    BinOp(BinOp(BinOp(z, outer1), outer2), outer3)
    
The difficult part is to either correctly rewrite `outer`, replacing the it-pats with distinguished
it-pats, or expanding the it-pats in the correct way. This might involve a thread-local / txn-local
variable to establish the 'levels'? The latter sounds doable.

    class RecStreamImpl(level: Int) {
      val innerStream = useLevel(level - 1)(inner.expand)
    
      def hasNext: Boolean = useLevel(level -1) { 
        innerStream.hasNext
      }
      
      def next(): A = useLevel(level - 1) {
        innerStream.next()
      }
    }
    
    val lvlVar = new ThreadLocal[Int]
    
    def useLevel[B](lvl: Int)(body: => B): B = ...
    
    def getLevel: Int = lvlVar()
    
    def mkRecStream = {
      val lvl = getLevel
      if (lvl == 0) z.expand
      else new RecStreamImpl(lvl)
    }
    
And analogous for the `outerStream`.

## qualifying 'It'

    Pat[A] {
      def collect(fun: PartialFunction[Pat[_], Pat[_])): Pat[A]
    }
    
