# SoundProcesses integration

## Pattern

- [x] as aural-attribute, producing scalar values (pat -> proc)
- [ ] as aural-obj, producing events and thus activating processes (pat <- proc)
- [ ] as transition to expr, e.g. `pat.toExpr[A](default: A)`

## Stream

- [ ] as aural-attribute, producing scalar values (stream -> proc)
- [ ] as aural-obj, producing events and thus activating processes (stream <- proc)
- [ ] as transition to expr, e.g. `stream.toExpr[A](default: A)`; here it's unclear
      how the stream is "advanced" and the values cached
      
There seems to be a weird impedance / conceptual mismatch at the transition to `Expr`.
Also, using a stream as attribute input, there should be a way to 'demarcate' the number
of elements read; for example, say we have `Brown`, how can we describe that for each
invocation of the `Proc`'s `play`, the respective _next element_ should be used as one
parameter? It sounds like we should have an additional glue object? Perhaps another pattern?
Like

    Stream { Brown(1, 100, 3) } --> "in" @ Graph { "in".attr.take() } --> "ctl" @ Proc
    
Additionally, we could imply that if a pattern and/or stream gives values only, not events, that we
just read the first element, as there is no temporal information available? Then we could just write

    Stream { Brown(1, 100, 3) } --> Proc.attrMap

and it would be clear. If, we wanted to take number of events from a stream, we could still insert the pattern:

    Stream { Output(0.2, Brown(1, 100, 3)) } --> "in" @ Graph { "in".attr.take(4) } --> "ctl" @ Proc

The problem with `stream.toExpr` is that it would naturally assume a 'push' model for stream updates;
the expr would keep the last value of the stream, then 'sit there and wait' for an 'update', but there is
no notion of an update propagating top down. We would need a hybrid object such as

    StreamExpr[A](peer: Stream[A]) extends Expr[A] { def next(): Unit }

Another problem occurs with multiple sinks for the same stream object. They would consume the stream in a
random fashion; but perhaps it is up to the composer to handle that particularity. E.g.

    Stream { ... } ---> [ "ctl1" @ Proc1, "ctl2" @ Proc2 ]
    
That has necessarily undefined behaviour. One constraint could be that the stream-obj only ever emits one
value per transaction? (That does not make sense)

An inversion, when needed, could indeed be embodied by something like the hypothetical `StreamExpr`?

