# Lucre attr-map access

There are two paths; either we introduce two system parameters to both `Context` and `Stream`, such that we
can have `Stream[S, S#I]` and thereby have a `S#I` state versus `Pattern[S].attr` access. Or we hide `Pattern[S]`
inside the context, such that we have `requestInput` similar to FScape, where the outer system is invisible.
The latter is less invasive in terms of API, but the question is if we should not have the opportunity to read
environment objects at any time, not just init time. On the other hand, `next` does carry the context, so it could
still be possible to read environmental objects later, relying on a transaction hierarchy with `S#Tx` being the outer
transaction. In the worst case we would throw a runtime exception, but it would indicate a programming error of SP,
not the user.


## Example of repeated env access

Could be as simple as `Expr[S, A]`. And we modify that while a stream is repeatedly referring to that.

## Where would the 'opaque' hiding of outer system cause problems?

(Cannot think of a case)

## AudioCue.NumFrames example

```
    def expand(implicit c: Context) = c match {
      case lc: LucreContext =>
        lc.requestInput(...) match {
          case Some(cv: AudioCue.Value) => ...
          case _ => sys.error()
      
      case _ => sys.error("Out of context")
    }

```

The interesting question is where the context get's its `S#Tx` from... The easiest approach would be to replace the
calls to `graph.expand` and `stream.next` in the aural-pattern attribute with `ctx.expand(graph)` and
`ctx.next(stream)`. All a bit hackish, but should work.

## From Folder to Folder.Collect

Syntactically, we want the following to work:

```
val f: Pat[Folder] = "folder".attr[Folder]
val c: Pat[AudioCue] = f.collect[AudioCue]
```

So the question is to what `stm.Folder[S]` is translated, i.e. what the shape of `Folder` is? We do not want to
eagerly traverse the folder, and also not introduce some opaque `Obj` if possible.

So we need to define the `advance` method of `Collect`:

```
def advance() = {
  val f: Folder = ???
  val childStream = f.collect[A]
}
```

Something like that:

```
class CollectType[A](index: Int)(implicit peer: Obj.Type[A]) extends Obj.Type[A] {
  def translate[S <: Sys[S]](obj: Obj[S]): Option[A] = obj match {
    case f: stm.Folder[S] => f.get(index).flatMap(peer.translate)
    case _ => None
  }
}
```

And thus:

```
def next() = {
  val idx = _index
  _index += 1
  ctx.requestInput(Context.Attribute(folder.key))(new CollectType(idx))
}
```
